# Face-Mask-Detection-Using-Transfer-Learning-and-OpenCV
The world is facing a huge health crisis because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The governments of various countries around the world are struggling to control the transmission of the same. According to the COVID-19 statistics published by many countries, it was noted that the transmission of the virus is more in crowded areas. Many research studies have proved that wearing a mask in public places will reduce the transmission rate of the virus. Therefore, the governments of various countries have made it mandatory to wear masks in public places and crowded areas. It is very difficult to monitor crowds at these places. So in this project, we propose a deep learning model that detects persons who are not wearing a mask. This proposed deep learning model is built using transfer learning of MobileNetV2. In this work image augmentation techniques are used to enhance the performance of the model as they increase the diversity of the training data. 

The proposed transfer learning model achieved accuracy of 97.48%, during training and 100% during testing . The same work can further be improved by employing large volumes of data and can also be extended to classify the type of mask, and implement a facial recognition system, deployed at various workplaces to support person identification while wearing the mask. Other pre-trained models can also be used for clasification and a comparative study can be conducted to check which one gives the best result.
